everybody this is Brian from private
reserve guitars and today I have an
awesome Gibson custom Birdland with me
this is just an iconic jazz guitar this
one has the Venetian cutaway it's in a
beautiful red finish and these guitars
are made in Nashville alongside the l5
and many other signature model Les
Paul's and such this guitar was
introduced in 1955 and with the help of
a couple players who's Billy Byrd and
Hank garland that actually helped design
this guitar some of the interesting
features of this guitar is that it's a
full 17 inch arch top but it then it's
only two and a quarter inches thick so
it's a thin acoustic guitar the other
thing about this guy is that it's got a
short scale length that's 23 and a half
inch scale length and some people
thought that was because it was student
model guitar but really it was for speed
and comfort for the player
so this guitar has the classic 57
humbuckers carved solid spruce top and
just absolutely beautiful flame maple
back in sides as well as this awesome
flame maple neck and black Chevron on
the headstock just a beautiful beautiful
guitar this guy's also really
comfortable to play so let's check it
out here we go
you
yeah yeah so as you can see this guitar
can do rock and roll too and it's been
known to do that in the past but
primarily this is a jazz guitar and I
tried to give you a few different
contexts that you could play this in I
played it in a more traditional style
just on the neck pickup with the tone
all the way up and then I rolled the
tone off to get more of that modern
muffled jazz tone and then also went to
the bridge pickup and turned on the tube
screamer to get more of the modern John
Scofield style sound and this guitar it
does it really well in the short scale
length is very very comfy to play like a
notice when I play a G chord that a my
left hand is much closer to my body than
usual and a fun fun guitar to play see
you next time
you